hi coach thanks for checking out this
preview on youtube of my practice plan
DVD and what I've hope to do in this DVD
is create a very informative and
educational DVD about how we run our
football practices the DVD will take you
through every minute of one of our
typical practices and explain to you how
we go about practicing both offense and
defense each night with all of our kids
teaching them both an offensive and
defensive position and basically what
we're looking to do here throughout the
DVD is break down all of our groups all
of our segments and show you every last
detail that goes into our practice at a
very very quick rate pretty much our
practices are broken down into different
categories in the categories we take you
through on the DVD our pre practice
along with our stretch our defensive
breakdown 7on7 run and pass our
defensive team we then have four
offensive groups as well and an
offensive team segment the preview that
you're about to see will cover are what
we call our group a segment of our
offensive practice and hopefully this
will give you a pretty good feel for
what the rest of the DVD will bring you
as well as we try to walk you through
give you some video footage give you
some explanation of the drills that we
are using and what we hope to accomplish
during this part of the practice thank
you again for checking out this preview
whatever you want to call it it's ten
minutes long and here's how we break
things down our offense line and our
tight ends will work together during
this time and we're going to work on
double team and then we're also going to
work on our outside run blocking
assignments one of the problems that we
found often was with having just the
line together the entire time is that
often tight ends never had any time to
work on assignments with the offensive
line we do a tremendous amount of double
teaming so we'll work our tight ends and
tackles double teaming our guards and
tackles together double teaming and then
why have a just a short time where they
could go ahead and work a few offensive
play so they know their assignments
again in the background you can see the
other groups work and you've got some
quarterbacks and fullbacks behind the
line some receivers down in the
background but right now what we're
doing is we're working double teams
again tightens and tackles are together
and often guards and tackles are
together and our centers and guards
eventually will be together because
again we do a tremendous amount of
different types of double teams within
our running game most of our running
game is based on having a double team at
the point of attack will do that for
probably six to seven minutes in the
last three minutes or so we will go
ahead and run offensive assignments
including our tight end what I like to
do is have a right side and then a left
side the right side will run a play the
left side will be getting ready left
side will now run a play and go whatever
that play up is being the assignment and
as soon as they're done I'll call out
the play to the right side and they'll
run a play quickly while the left sides
walking back and getting ready our group
pay for our running backs then is they
will be working on some footwork bag
drills always some some tour some sort
of ball security drill and then some
running drills and in this particular
thing you'll see a three-legged type of
drill that we like to try to do and if
we believe in get an awful lot of things
out of this segment for our running
backs if I only had to pick one thing
for me it would probably be ball
security of some sort because turnovers
are obviously so critical and Sookie two
games give you some quick footage on
some of the things so you can watch them
here doing some just quick footwork
drills up and down the bags we always
try to have a lot of football's over
there and this in this particular we
have one coach all four levels be
working together at this particular case
and we just do your standard handoff
drill about 10 to 15 yards apart we
emphasize hope you can see their
overemphasized rolling over the ball at
this time and trying to keep the drill
somewhat under control yet still keeping
a decent pace and that's one of the
tough things with this drill will work
both the right arm and the left arm by
having all the levels together though
the seniors can often coach the freshmen
up and you actually get through things
quicker than what you might think it's
another little quick little drill we do
this little speed turn type drill vil
three legged drill if you will where we
learn to drop that hand down you can see
one person stumble there but we learn to
try to drop that hand I when you're
getting knocked off balance get the hand
down be able to pop back up and get the
other way and then we're just doing an
explosion drill here we have some bags
it's kind of a ball security and we
teach
to explode through as well for us being
an option our quarterback and fullbacks
be working again they're working on
meshes option reads for the beer and for
the midline if we weren't running option
I'd have probably a lot of the backfield
together working on the time timing on
the offensive running plays I've often
found it interesting how many teams will
turn the ball over not because of a
great hit but because things are not
timed up between their running backs and
quarterbacks and so we spend a
tremendous amount of time on this our
sinners are actually included in this as
well is there going to be snapping the
ball to our quarterback we set cones at
where we want our aim points that and we
have our defense or read people here as
well and again this is for us we are an
option type of team and because this is
camp you'll see that we'll have a couple
extra fullbacks back in there but as our
season goes on we wind this down so we
have one fullback one quarterback one
center and then the defense of people so
when get reads very very quickly but you
can see even here now and we try to
emphasize sprinting on through the line
of scrimmage as well we're getting plays
off about every 10 to 20 seconds and we
get an awful lot of repetitions very
quickly and then in Group A for our wide
receivers we're working on our stock
block progression will work some of our
crack back crackback block and then
we'll also work on takeoffs and releases
and what we're looking for in the
takeoffs is we never want to false step
that is shuffling our feet before we're
leaving the line of scrimmage it throws
the timing of routes off and it throws
the timing of your blocks off as well
and we take the time to work on that
along with learning how to swim and the
rip off if we do indeed see press
coverage if you've enjoyed the preview I
strongly urge you to check out my
website again got all the information on
there about all the dvds are offering
all the products all the address is
given to you there and I hope you've
enjoyed it and I'll try my best again to
give you the most information possible
for the money that you spend and I hope
the information will really help you and
your program thanks again for checking
out this preview